# ModuleDependencyVisualizer

## What is this?

I needed a way to generate a graph of module dependencies for Elixir
applications for an upcoming talk I'm giving. This tool generates that
structured data for me so I can investigate and make pretty graphs!

A module dependency, for this purpose, is any module that is `include`d, `use`d,
or has a function called. You can check out the tests for a brief example that
should clear things up.

## Can/Should I use this?

Sure, why not! It's a very narrow library that I'm mostly have as open sourced
so the code is available for inspection by people who see the talk I'm giving
that will feature the data generated by this tool.

## How can I use this?

Add to dependenies:

```elixir
  def deps do
    [
      # ...
      {
        :module_dependency_visualizer,
        git: "https://github.com/yunmikun2/module_dependency_visualizer",
        branch: "feature/as-dependency",
        only: :dev
      }
      # ...
    ]
  end
```

Then it will be better if you configure image viewer. Add the
following to your `dev.exs`:

```elixir
config :module_dependency_visualizer,
  png_viewer: "xdg-open"
```

You can put your favourite image viewer instead of `xdg-open`, but
make sure everybody on the team have it. :)

Now you can run

```sh
mix module_dependency_visualizer
```

and see your module dependency graph yourself.

If you want to do really deep analysis of your graphs, you can use
[Gephi](https://gephi.org/). The `.gv` files output by this program can easily
be loaded into that program.

Also, I've only tested this on OSX, so Linux and Windows may have some
funkiness.

## Is it any good?

No, it most certainly is not. Tests are sparse, documentation is lacking, and
the code itself has a ton of duplication. It is, however, a working application
without any dependencies.

## Will it be developed further?

No, it will not. If you're interested in developing this, feel free to fork this
and take it in whichever direction you see fit! This fits my needs for now, and
at the moment I'm too busy to commit to maintaining it.
